1. FIRST(NodeJsBasics)/4. path-module/notes.md, before:

🧩 path module

The path module in Node.js helps you work with file and directory paths in a way that works on all operating systems (Windows, macOS, Linux).

🔹 path.dirname(__filename)
Gives the directory name (folder path) of the current file.
console.log(path.dirname(__filename));


🔹 path.basename(__filename)
Gives the file name (last part of the path).

Output:
pathDemo.js

🔹 path.extname(__filename)
Gives the file extension of the current file.
Output:   .js

🔹 path.join(...)
Joins multiple path segments together using the correct separator (/ or \) and removes extra ones.
const joinPath = path.join("/user", "documents", "node", "projects");
console.log(joinPath);
Output:
\user\documents\node\projects
(uses backslashes \ on Windows)
🧠 It automatically fixes extra slashes or missing separators.

Example:

path.join("/user/", "/node", "file.txt");
// → "\user\node\file.txt"

path.join() ONLY joins the path segments you give it.
It does NOT automatically add:
current working directory (CWD)
current file’s directory (__dirname)
absolute path resolution
unless you put those yourself.




🔹 path.resolve(...)
Gives the absolute path (from your current working directory).
const resolvePath = path.resolve("user", "documents", "node", "projects");

If your project is in
C:\Users\Azka\Desktop\node
then output becomes:
C:\Users\Azka\Desktop\node\user\documents\node\projects
🧠 resolve() starts from your current working directory and builds an absolute path.

🔹 path.normalize(...)
Cleans up a messy path — removes . (current dir), .. (parent dir), and fixes slashes.
const normalizePath = path.normalize("/user/.documents/../node/projects");
console.log(normalizePath);


Output:
\user\node\projects

🧠 It makes sure your path is valid and consistent.

🧾 Summary Table
Method	Purpose	Example Output
dirname()	Folder name of current file	C:\Users\Azka\Desktop\node
basename()	File name only	pathDemo.js
extname()	File extension	.js
join()	Combine path parts	\user\documents\node\projects
resolve()	Get absolute path	C:\Users\Azka\Desktop\node\user\documents\node\projects
normalize()	Clean messy path	\user\node\projects

Commit message:

Updated NODEJS-AUTH module with more functionality like delete image, change password and minor formatting fixes

1. FIRST(NodeJsBasics)/4. path-module/notes.md, after:

🧩 path module

The path module in Node.js helps you work with file and directory paths in a way that works on all operating systems (Windows, macOS, Linux).

🔹 path.dirname(__filename)
Gives the directory name (folder path) of the current file.
console.log(path.dirname(__filename));


🔹 path.basename(__filename)
Gives the file name (last part of the path).

Output:
pathDemo.js

🔹 path.extname(__filename)
Gives the file extension of the current file.
Output:   .js

🔹 path.join(...)
Joins multiple path segments together using the correct separator (/ or \) and removes extra ones.
const joinPath = path.join("/user", "documents", "node", "projects");
console.log(joinPath);
Output:
\user\documents\node\projects
(uses backslashes \ on Windows)
🧠 It automatically fixes extra slashes or missing separators.

Example:

path.join("/user/", "/node", "file.txt");
// → "\user\node\file.txt"

path.join() ONLY joins the path segments you give it.
It does NOT automatically add:
current working directory (CWD)
current file’s directory (__dirname)
absolute path resolution
unless you put those yourself.




🔹 path.resolve(...)
Gives the absolute path (from your current working directory).
const resolvePath = path.resolve("user", "documents", "node", "projects");

If your project is in
C:\Users\Azka\Desktop\node
then output becomes:
C:\Users\Azka\Desktop\node\user\documents\node\projects
🧠 resolve() starts from your current working directory and builds an absolute path.

🔹 path.normalize(...)
Cleans up a messy path — removes . (current dir), .. (parent dir), and fixes slashes.
const normalizePath = path.normalize("/user/.documents/../node/projects");
console.log(normalizePath);


Output:
\user\node\projects

**Rules for . and .. in Node.js path.normalize()**
. (current directory)
Always removed.
Example: /user/./docs → /user/docs

.. (parent directory)
Removes the directory immediately before it.
Example: /user/docs/../node → /user/node
If .. is at the start of the path, it stays:
../user/docs → ../user/docs

Folders starting with . (like .config)
They are real folder names, not special.
Only a .. after them can remove them.
Example: /user/.config/../data → /user/data
.config is kept until .. removes it

Multiple ..
Each .. removes the folder immediately before it:
/a/b/c/../../d → /a/d
first .. removes c → /a/b
second .. removes b → /a
then d added → /a/d



🧠 It makes sure your path is valid and consistent.

🧾 Summary Table
Method	Purpose	Example Output
dirname()	Folder name of current file	C:\Users\Azka\Desktop\node
basename()	File name only	pathDemo.js
extname()	File extension	.js
join()	Combine path parts	\user\documents\node\projects
resolve()	Get absolute path	C:\Users\Azka\Desktop\node\user\documents\node\projects
normalize()	Clean messy path	\user\node\projects
